[DOCS] Add Downsampling docs (#88571)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/data-streams/downsampling-manual.asciidoc

[[downsampling-manual]]
=== Run downsampling manually
++++
<titleabbrev>Run downsampling manually</titleabbrev>
++++

preview::[]

> This is a simplified example that allows you to see quickly how <<downsampling,downsampling>> works to reduce the storage size of a sampled set of metrics. The example uses typical Kubernetes system monitoring data. To test out downsampling, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a simplified example that allows you to see quickly how <<downsampling,downsampling>> works to reduce the storage size of a time series index. The example uses typical Kubernetes cluster monitoring data. To test out downsampling, follow these steps:
```

Author: Fixed in [507419d](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/88571/commits/507419dcc6e4498ad50f37505d150e5de4db8a77)

. Check the <<downsampling-manual-prereqs,prerequisites>>.
. <<downsampling-manual-create-index>>.
. <<downsampling-manual-ingest-data>>.
. <<downsampling-manual-run>>.
. <<downsampling-manual-view-results>>.

[discrete]
[[downsampling-manual-prereqs]]
==== Prerequisites

Refer to <<tsds-prereqs,time series data stream prerequisites>>.

For the example you need a sample data file. Download the file from link:
https://static-www.elastic.co/v3/assets/bltefdd0b53724fa2ce/bltf2fe7a300c3c59f7/631b4bc5cc56115de2f58e8c/sample-k8s-metrics.json[here] and save it in the local directory where you're running {es}.

[discrete]
[[downsampling-manual-create-index]]
==== Create a time series index

> This creates an index template for a basic data stream. The available parameters for an index template are described in detail in <<set-up-a-data-stream,Set up a time series data stream>>.

Reviewer: This creates the actual index, not an index template

Author: Changed to `This creates an index for a basic data stream. The available parameters for an index are described in detail in <<set-up-a-data-stream,Set up a time series data stream>>.` in [507419d](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/88571/commits/507419dcc6e4498ad50f37505d150e5de4db8a77)

                            },
                            "start_time": {
                                "type": "date"
                            }
                        }
                    },
                    "host": {
                        "type": "keyword",
                        "time_series_dimension": true
                    },
                    "namespace": {
                        "type": "keyword",
                        "time_series_dimension": true
                    },
                    "node": {
                        "type": "keyword",
                        "time_series_dimension": true
                    },
                    "pod": {
                        "type": "keyword",
                        "time_series_dimension": true
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}

----
// TEST

[discrete]
[[downsampling-manual-ingest-data]]
==== Ingest time series data

In a terminal window with {es} running, run the following curl command to load the documents from the downloaded sample data file:

//[source,console]
//----
```
curl -s -H "Content-Type: application/json" \

>    -XPOST http://localhost:9200/sample-01/_bulk?pretty \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -XPOST http://<elasticesearch-node>:9200/sample-01/_bulk?pretty \
```

Author: Fixed in [507419d](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/88571/commits/507419dcc6e4498ad50f37505d150e5de4db8a77)

          },
          "kubernetes.container.memory.pagefaults": {
            "min": 69086,
            "max": 428910,
            "sum": 20239365,
            "value_count": 81
          },
          "kubernetes.container.memory.workingset.bytes": {
            "min": 323420,
            "max": 2279342,
            "sum": 104233700,
            "value_count": 81
          },
          "kubernetes.container.memory.usage.bytes": {
            "min": 61401416,
            "max": 413064069,
            "sum": 18557182404,
            "value_count": 81
          }
        }
      },
...
```

This example demonstrates how downsampling can dramatically reduce the number of records stored for time series data, within whatever time boundaries you choose. It's also possible to perform downsampling on already downsampled data, to further reduce storage and associated costs, as the time series data ages and the data resolution becomes less critical.

Downsampling is very easily integrated within an ILM policy. To learn more, try the <<downsampling-ilm,Run downsampling with ILM>> example.

////
[source,console]
----
DELETE /sample-01*
DELETE _data_stream/*
DELETE _index_template/*

> ----

Reviewer: Not sure this cleaning is required.

Author: Nice! I thought all the object we created had to be un-created.
Fixed via [347cd81](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/88571/commits/347cd8124f8d37d3efd19095bb154344ed31ce5c)
